Business Analytics Skills Final Deliverable

Group Member:
Linhui Fu, Muchen Zhu, Tianyi Chang, Elvis Leng, Ziyi Zhao

Description

The domain we choose is the Relevance between Disease Rates and CPI in different Countries. All supporting data and references come from following websites: “Annual
Consumer Price Index (CPI)”, “Country, Regional and World GDP (Gross Domestic Product)”, “World Development Indicators (GDP per capita)”. By comparing the disease rates and the corresponding wealth indicators of different countries, we expect to visualize the strength of relevance between these two factors in different regions.

Interests

The first reason why we choose this domain is because this topic is very important. With the high degree of globalization, the poverty issue of certain countries comes to our sight. Since the infrastructure and health environment is not complete, people in these countries are also suffering from diseases. In order to explore the degree of relevance between wealth and diseases, we choose this domain. The wealth indicator includes GDP and per capita GDP. Gross domestic product (GDP) is a monetary measure of the market value of all final goods and services produced in a period (quarterly or yearly) of time. Per capita GDP is a measure of the total output of each person of a country.

Besides, the scale, the depth, and the analyzability of datasets the are our second concerns. By examining the clustering of the occurrence of disease and GDP, we may be able to find some patterns of the spread of diseases and of the distribution of wealth. For instance, certain diseases may be more likely to spread in specific continents. Countries located in some areas may tend to be associated with lower GDP. With the help of Tableau, the visualization will help expand the theme and explore some hidden patterns. Therefore, we choose this domain because of sufficient data sources, which, guarantee its correctness and reliability, and the potential valuable insights we can generate.

Meaning

As for the meaning of this domain, we believe that one of the influential power of data
analysis is telling the story behind the data to the public. Using visualization method, the
situation of the country that is far from us can be easily seen. Comparing the wealth
and disease rates among different countries, people can understand what happened in
different regions and what the penny inside his/her pocket really means. We hope we can
make effort to this meaningful process.

Challenges

Plots and Workbooks

Reference:

Annual Consumer Price Index: http://datahub.io/core/cpi
Country, Regional and World GDP: http://datahub.io/core/gdp 
World Development Indicators:
http://databank.worldbank.org/data/reports.aspx?source=2&series=NY.GDP.PCAP.CD&country=
